tens of thousands of displaced
Palestinians have been Sheltering at
schools run by the UN Refugee agency
unra El jazer spoke to some of them met
a facility in central
Gaza I'm from Gaza and we found nothing
here you need to fight to buy some water
food is not good at all they shouldn't
have brought such bad food we came from
Gaza and we're being attacked here and
there and everywhere our situation is
miserable and our wives and daers are in
the streets no Arab country wants to
help why are we
living we escaped we scared shelling is
everywhere the world must understand our
situation we have children and we have
sick people and also also they displace
people who are suffering from cancer we
are terrorized and someone must
understand how terrorized and horrified
we are we have no food we have no water
there no toilets we're left to stay on
the streets
they have destroyed my house I have no
other place to live I don't know where
to go our life is hell they told us to
go to the South and here we are in the
South I'm sick and tired of everything I
don't need food I just need to go back
to my house take me to my place and I
will live in a tent there well our
correspondent Muhammad Jim Jun is
standing by for us he's an occupied East
Jerusalem Muhammad you've spoken to unra
what have they told you about the
situation in G
Tom we heard extremely Stark and dire
warnings from the UN Refugee Agency for
Palestinians from unra they had a press
conference a short while ago here in
occupied East Jerusalem let me tell you
just a little bit about what we heard
the UN commissioner uh commissioner
General Philipe lazarini he said that
they need to be able to bring supplies
into Gaza that there needs to be a
humanitarian Corridor established that
no place in Gaza is safe he said that
the situation was absolutely
unprecedented he said Wars all wars even
this war have laws and they need to be
followed um he went on to say that Gaza
is running out of water and electricity
he said Gaza is being strangled and it
seems the world right now has lost its
Humanity if we look at the issue of
water we all know that water is life and
Gaza is running out of water and Gaza is
running out of life so extremely dire
warnings about what is going on from ANA
now I asked the spokesperson for Ana
Tamar about those reports that we've
been hearing the last few hours that
perhaps water had been restored by
Israel to Southern Gaza uh she said that
they have not yet been able to confirm
that that has happened and explained
more about what potentially might happen
going forward take a listen to what she
told me until about an hour ago our
colleagues in southern Gaza our
colleagues in ra could not confirm that
water had been restored but even if the
water is restored the water is going to
go to big uh containers in Gaza which
means that they the the the water will
need to be trucked to different
locations and to truck the water to
different locations we need fuel for the
trucks so it's really a chain of of
events that need to happen before people
can actually get
water Muhammad what is the Israeli
government saying about the potential
for regional
escalation Tom throughout the day uh
we've been hearing just very bellicose
rhetoric from Israeli officials uh with
regards to the steps going forward uh we
heard from the top spokesperson for the
Israeli Army several hours ago he
essentially said that Israel will be
able to operate anywhere in the region
in order to counter threats that they
feel that they have to counter um that
was clearly a message being sent to
Regional actors that they should not
think about attacking Israel but it was
also a message being sent domestically
to Israeli citizens that the country
basically will do whatever is needed to
protect itself um now we also heard from
the Prime Minister earlier in the day
Benjamin Netanyahu he met for the first
time with that expanded emergency
cabinet that has been uh established
this past week and he said that Hamas
will be demolished and then we also
heard from the defense minister yoav
Galant uh he a little bit later in the
afternoon said that the country is going
to do everything it can to destroy Hamas
so this is the rhetoric we're hearing
Israel basically telling everybody who
will listen that they are going to
destroy Hamas that they will operate in
any theater in the region that they see
fit to protect themselves um and it's
going to be interesting to see if any of
this language shifts at all tomorrow
because tomorrow you have US Secretary
of State Anthony blinkin returning here
for his second visit in less than a week
uh he is going to be meeting with
Israeli officials so it will be
interesting to see on the eve of this
visit we've heard so much aggressive
language today we'll see tomorrow what
exactly we'll be hearing from Israeli
officials going forward Tom okay thanks
so much Muhammad this Muhammad Jim Jun
for us an occupied East Jerusalem